# Configuration: Data Serializers

## Hdf5DataSerializer

This Data Serializer turns the Data accumulated by LCLStreamer into a binary blob with
the internal structure of an HDF5 file.

### Configuration Parameters for Hdf5Serializer

* `compression` (str): This parameter is optional. If present, the Hdf5 Data Serializer
  compresses the data with the specified algorithm during serialization. Possible values
  are: `gzip`, `gzip_with_shuffle` (byteshuffle is performed before gzip compression is
  applied) `bitshuffle_with_lz4`, `bitshuffle_with_zstd` (bitshuffle is peformed before
  compression with LZ4 or Zstd is appled), `zfp`. If this parameter is not speficied
  or set to `null`, no compression is applied during serialization. The default value
  of this parameter is `null`. Example: `gzip`

* `compression_level (int)`: This parameter is optional. If the compression algorithm
  specified by the `compression` configuration parameter supports compression levels,
  this parameter specfies the compression level applied during the serialization. The
  default value of this parameter is 3. Example: `5`
    ] = None

* `fields`: this entry is a dictionary that specified where each data source will be
  stored in the internal structure of the HDF5 file. Each key in the dictionary is the
  name of a data source, and each value is the internal path where the data source is
  saved. If a data source is not present in the dictionary, it will be excluded from
  the serialization process and will not appear in the serialized data. Example:

  ```yaml
  fields:
    timestamp: /data/timestamp
    detector_data: /data/data
  ```
