# Configuration: Data Handlers

## BinaryFileWritingDataHandler

This Data Handler class writes serialized data into a file. The name of the file is
generated by joining a string identifying the rank of the process writing the file, with
a number that increases progressively with each file written by the same process. A
suffix is appended to the resulting string. Optionally, a prefix can be prepended to the
file name.


### Configuration Parameters for Hdf5BinarySerializer

* `file_prefix` (str): This parameter is optional. It defines a prefix that is prepended
  to the name of each file written by the Data Handler. The default value is "" (an
  empty string, no prefix). Example: `processed_`

* `file_suffix` (str): This parameter is optional.  It defines the suffix (extension)
  for the files written by the Data Handler. The default value is "h5" (i.e: an ".h5"
  extension is used for the files). Example: `.data`

* `write_directory` (str): This parameter is optional. It defines the directory where
  the Data Handler writes the files. The default value of this parameter is the current
  working directory.


## BinaryFileWritingDataHandler

This Data Handler sends data through a socket, to be consumed by an external application.
The handler can create sockets using either the `NNG` or the `ZMQ` library. Currently,
Sockets created by this handler are blocking: if nothing receives the data on the other
side of the socket, the data flow through the handler stops.


### Configuration Parameters for Hdf5BinarySerializer

* `urls` (list of str): This parameter defines the list of URIS where the Data Handler
  opens its sockets. Each URI must be in a format compatible with the `ZMQ` and `NNG`
  libraries, depending on which one is used by the handler. Additionally, this
  parameter must always have the form of a list, even if just one URI is provided

* `role` (str): This parameter specifies if the Data Handler should create a socket or
  connect to an already existing one. The parameter can only have two values: `server`,
  (to have the handler create the socket) or `client` (to connect to an existing
  socket. The `server` role corresponds to sockets performing a `bind` operation with
  the `ZMQ` library, or a `listen` operation with the `NNG` library. The `client` role
  corresponds instead to socket performing a `connect` operation with `ZMQ` or a `dial`
  operation with `NNG`.

* `library` (str): This parameter dictates which library the handler uses to manage the
  socket. The parameter can only have the values `zmq` or `nng` to use the `ZMQ` or `NNG`
  libraries respectively

* `socket_type` (str): This parameter determines the type of socket that the handler
  creates. Currently only the `PUSH` socket type is supported and this parameter can
  only take the value `push`
